# AJTECH
  Ulayaw, a Cebuano word that means Intimate Conversation. Ulayaw’s mission is to give users a friend for an intimate conversation. 
  
  Ulayaw is a talk to a friend, meditation, and a calming app that will be available both in the App Store and Google Play store. We dedicate this app to people suffering from mental health problems worldwide, specifically in the Philippines.
  
  Ulayaw will be the first mobile application to have a “Call a Friend” feature and the first calming app to have Filipino stories and songs developed by the Filipino Developers. The “Call a Friend” feature is where the users can ask the app for a friend if they need a person to express their feelings and emotions. The person who will be talking to users is the volunteers of this app that is dedicated to achieving the goals for SDG 3. The volunteers will be trained before they speak to the users to ensure that Ulayaw is a safe application for everyone. 
  
  The product will have other features that the users can use whenever they are feeling stressed. First is the journal; this feature can help users identify and observe what they are feeling the past few days. This can help them determine if they need professional help later or sooner. Second, the team is proud of this minor feature because it promotes the Filipinos' different skills, which is to write songs and stories. AJTech will use the pieces to calm the users if they prefer music, and the stories will be used as a medium to help them distract themselves when they are overthinking. Last will be the educational feature, this will serve as a guide for all users, or they can use this to know the different mental health features. The app would be indeed helpful for the users. The team only aims to help the users.
    
  When the app is opened, the first thing you will notice is a pop-up that shows “What brings you to ULAYAW”. This is so that the user is aware that there are different functions to this app. The home screen of this app has our logo on the top and the functions in the bottom. This is so that the functions are easier to access. The icons of the functions are chosen for easier recognition of what that function does and also so that it is less cluttered.

When each function is opened, different screens open up. For instance when you open the “I am Beautiful” button, you will be led to a selection of images. These images are arranged in a gallery view, with no set ratio. When you open the “I need to calm down” button, you are led to a selection of songs and stories. When you open the “I need help” you will see a list of numbers you can call. In the future, this will include numbers of certain volunteers. The “Learn About” button shows a page with different information about Mental Health to help spread awareness.

The Google Technology used was Flutter. Flutter is an open-source, cross-platform toolkit used for building apps for mobile OS, web, and desktop with the same code base. It will be used to create the frontend of the app so that it will be easier to implement the code in different platforms. This was used to make the actual app to encode the necessary codes for the application.

  The application was built in a simple and accessible way. The app was developed in Flutter since they make it easy to develop because of the customizable packages to make different widgets. The developers needed two software to complete the process, the Flutter SDK and Android Studio for the editor. This should run with the codes included. The execution of the project is simple and understandable.
  
  The Ulayaw app will be downloaded free on App Store and Google Play Store.
